do you have a PlayStation 5 professional
yet what you do we're late well whatever
we're checking out the PS5 Pro and I am
actually pretty excited about this thing
I know that a lot of the coverage of the
PS5 pro has been focused on the 200 plus
dollar price hike but there's actually a
lot of value in here that I don't know
if Sony is getting quite enough credit
for for starters there's the GPU upgrade
the new GPU has 67% more compute units
for an estimated 45% better Real World
performance in games okay most people
probably won't notice the difference but
there's more we lose the disc drive
which is actually a gigantic bummer but
what we gain is a 2 tbte rather than 1
tbte SSD and it wasn't even a full
terabyte on the original console and we
get another 2 gigs of ddr5 memory that
is dedicated to the CPU giving us the
enre 16 gigs of gddr6 memory for the GPU
once again I have sequestered myself not
looking at other coverage in order to
bring you guys the freshest Impressions
and I feel like my wife I thought it was
going to be bigger they really Managed
IT they made the PS5 shape after all
this time not look completely stupid I
think it looks kind of cool do people
think it looks cool oh boy I don't have
the vertical stand on yes I understand
that the vertical stand cost what what
is it 30 bucks or something like that
which is really 30 bucks yeah I think
this could have been
included but here's an
option don't buy it it's fine who
cares what it's not going to fall over
it's fine it's fine I'm going to go on
bamboo handy right now and there's
nothing but there is a PlayStation 5
slim vertical stand so whether you use a
mail order printing service or you just
find a friend that has a 3D printer or
local maker space I believe in you I
think you can figure it out let's talk
about the key benefits here Sony I think
has actually done a pretty good job of
not overselling what the PS5 Pro is it
uses a combination of a more powerful
GPU a little bit more system memory and
probably most importantly their new
spectral super resolution which seems
like a kind of in between amd's own FSR
which is their upscaling technique and/
sharpening technique and nvidia's deep
learning super sampling which is an AI
driven upscaling technique so Sony's is
AI driven but doesn't seem to be quite
on the level of nvidia's at least if
digital foundaries coverage is to be
believed which pretty good about that
stuff it should be noted though that
this is in PS5 Pro enhanced games and in
a lot of titles you can expect more
along the lines of just smoother frame
rates at the same visual fidelity or in
older backwards compatible titles in
some cases a little bit of subtle
upscaling so far pretty mediocre sales
pitch but we haven't touched on their
more advanced Ray tracing according to
Sony they're using a new generation AMD
Ray tracing engine that isn't even
present in amd's own dedicated gpus at
least not yet which should result in
some more impressive lighting effects
all of this can wait for the side by
side that we're going to do a little bit
later first let's take a closer look at
it physically ah yes Kensington lock
HDMI 2.1 supporting up to 8K output
though I couldn't help noticing that not
only did Sony remove the 8K branding
from the original PS5 it is also not
present on the new PS5 Pro they talk
about variable refresh rate they talk
about 120 HZ 4K gaming and HDR but no
mention of 8K even though technically it
will output it and these new upscaling
techniques could actually help with that
power input for the what is it 390 W
power supply I got to imagine that's
overs speec for this thing just based on
the size that's a big cooling fan okay
maybe she does do 400 wats good gravy
look at that cooler it's not that heavy
though a couple more USB ports USBC this
time with one of them being 10 gig super
speed and of course our power
button I know I mentioned this already
but once again guys there is no disc
drive and as we covered recently that is
going to cost you in the longer term but
is also probably just the future we're
headed towards whether we like it or not
oh one other minor gripe even though the
size is very similar to the PS5 slim the
plates are not intercompatibility
a little bit of power to keep the clock
accurate once the power plug is yanked
so once these button cells die you can
get kind of flaky behavior from
computers and computers that are shaped
like PlayStations upgradable SSD I still
cannot get over that Sony didn't go
proprietary you know memory stick mini
disc they have such a long Rich history
uh memory cards for the original
PlayStation good guy
Sony well bad guy Sony who did the right
thing this time technically Sony sent
this and told we're not allowed to tear
it down at least not yet so I
won't I mean she probably still works
hey let's find out after this message
from our sponsor War Thunder thanks War
Thunder for sponsoring this video take
command of over
2500 highly detailed Vehicles as you
unleash a world of pain on your enemies
War Thunder makes it easy to drop in and
out of the action and with their new
mobile version for IOS and Android you
can play just about anywhere so whether
you're waiting in line to pick up the
new PS5 Pro or you have it all hooked up
and you're ready to get gaming War
Thunder is there to scratch that
destructive itch so check it out today
and even get some premium unlocks by
using our Link in the video description
I think the biggest difference though is
in the lighting both of these are
running in HDR but only one of them has
lights that look like lights that are
casting light like look how much more
detailed the Shadows are on the stairs
oh we should definitely go to Fidelity
mode
then that'll be a 30 FPS mode wow they
somehow uh put even less clothing on
Tifa smooth I haven't played this yet
that's the original that's me person
this is my game you don't buy the
outfits you earn them okay that's way
better but then that's 30 FPS oh gross
oh that's say oh buddy just the ability
to never have to play in 30fps mode that
would be a major factor for me one thing
I've seen though is people claiming that
if you sit far enough back from your TV
it doesn't make a difference so let's go
back to Performance mode cuz I'm
definitely going to notice the FPS
difference and then let's move away from
it very noticeably softer even from here
and these are only 42in displays so this
is a very very reasonable distance from
them as soon as things are in
motion like the lighting the lighting
across his six-pack this is a cut scene
and these G these games have really good
like cut scene rendering so I'd be
interested to see once we're in the
battle how it feels he put fire on my
body okay I get iling on the the back
rail you're in CLE yeah I'm getting
Mario and I saw a little bit of
flickering on the stairs when we were
coming into the Coliseum however I also
saw it on that one so it seems to be
just like a rendering eror of some sort
or maybe a realistic representation of
like crappy LED lighting you're not
Marvel Sony they already sold me the
game but they can't just let me play it
Fidelity Pro still runs at 30 frames per
second yeah but I think it's a native 4K
okay but here's what I want to see is my
performance Pro going to look like your
Fidelity uh I did performance the fact
that we're looking this closely tells
you pretty much everything you need to
know let's go back to gaming
distance I mean like if I'm buying a
PlayStation today anyway and I just you
know I'm like H I don't know whatever I
have A200 extra dollars burning a hole
in my pocket sure what whatever buy a
pro do you want to see your FPS mode
versus my FPS mode you know what this is
actually quite playable especially
compared to Final Fantasy rebirth yeah
like this is fine this is probably
somewhere between
45ish FPS wait wait wait I think it's
lock 30 it looks better than 30 that's
she she's like feel it too like she
feels responsive there's no way that's
30 FPS it's just not I I might be wrong
I'm so console branded now and the
difference between 30 and 40 is is very
very well okay most people don't care
but I can I still think it's a little
silly to be remastering a game that's
this new but I don't mind it too much
when it's a $10 upgrade if they made me
Reby it yeah I'd be freaking pissed this
looks exactly the same let's get to the
game playay yeah yeah yeah we're going
to get to the game play motion blur off
see you later thank you for the
option that's 30 FPS for sure
yep oh uh yeah I'm getting a little less
Shimmer than you it's worth 200
bucks I'm going to go down to balanced
and I'm going to see if it still looks
about the same but I'm getting way
better fps I mean I guess it depends on
how good you are at the combat I spent a
lot of time slinking around in the
foliage okay David do you want to change
yours to favor uh performance you can
tell there's a bit too much of an
oversharpening filter applied to yours
the upscaling is doing some work but I
don't know if I'd never seen this
we're doing side by side cuz it's fun to
play these kinds of games if it wasn't
side by side I could not tell you which
one is which and it's nice that there's
55 plus games that are already PS5 Pro
patched I expect that the games that are
more poorly optimized are going to see
the bigger boost whereas all these Sony
first party games are all pretty
freaking tight on the PS5 that the jump
and Fidel wouldn't be worth it which is
tough because that's why you buy a PS5
is for the Sony first party stuff yeah
so not a bad machine you're getting the
extra performance you're getting some
quality of life improvements you're
getting extra
storage but when we compare the value
proposition to the original PS5 or
especially to the PS5 slim you can get a
slim a disc drive and a portal so that
you can play your games on the go all
around your house for the price of just
the box
here you know what else you can do
subscribe to Short Circuit short circuit
for life